Privileges 
===
Permissions come from two sources: 

1. User database 
2. Content objects 

Both have to respect the object hierarchy, giving a merging chain and the most specific assignation 
overrules the less specific ones: if a folder has edit permission for imaginary Group A, but a specific article 
has denied editing, it is more specific and thus overrules folder permissions and will not be editable by 
Group A. 

Core privileges 

There are five core privileges: Create, Read, Update, Delete, Owner 

In addition to this, e.g. folders have additional privileges for 

* Folder management 
* Layout template management 
* Configuration 

Planning privileges 

Midgard applies the privileges in order of creation. If the first rule allows all Users to read and the second 
rule denies All from reading, then no one (except the users of administrator group) is allowed to read the 
content. 

Note: Always plan your privileges before starting to assign them! 

Planning should start from the site structure and to locate the restricted areas. From this it is easiest to see 
what groups are required. 

When the site structure is ready it is time for planning the group structure. Since persons get their 
privileges according to the group inheritance, tree structure is recommended. 

Note: If you have a case where content managers are in Content Managers group and 
there are six groups under that and two of them should not have the editing 
permission, while the four should, the correct way would be to give editing permission 
to the Content Managers group and to deny editing from two groups. In this case three 
privilege assignations are needed, since subgroups will share the upper group 
privileges, unless they have their own privileges assigned. 

Handling the privileges 

To edit permissions for page, select Page > Permissions or for folder Folder > Folder permissions 
correspondingly. 

To assign privileges for a new group 

1. Select the group from the dropdown list 
2. Click on the box on the privilege button to rotate through the privilege types 
* inherited (not assigned) 
* allow 
* deny 

3. Finally click on the Save button 

Note: If you have JavaScript disabled, you need to click on the button Save after 
selecting the group and selecting the corresponding privilege from the dropdown list. 

If you want to remove a group from the list, simply click on the symbol to remove it from the list. 

Note: If JavaScript is disabled and there is need to remove a group from the list, select 
Not set (inherited) to all the privileges and click on save. Groups without assigned 
privileges for the object will not be shown on the list. 

