Revisions
===
Revision Control System or RCS is for viewing the differences between different versions of a page and 
makes it possible to restore an earlier version. 

Note: It is possible to return to the original page in any point by clicking on Back to page 
title 

Viewing the revision history 

To get to see the list of changes made in a page in its history of existence click on Page -> Show revision 
history. 

Selecting the version 

After clicking on Show revision history there should be now a list of versions stored of the page. There are 
five columns describing each of the revisions 

1. Revision 
* The version number of the revision. This will increase every time a change is made. 

2. Date 
* Date the revision was made. This is the date when the page was saved. 

3. User 
* Name of the user who committed the change. 

4. Lines 
* Number of the lines changed. 

5. Message 
* System message describing the change 

Click on the revision version number (first column) you wish to view. 

Viewing the difference 

To view the difference to either newer or older revision, click on the appropriate action from the toolbar. 

Note: Depending on the version viewed there might be also link to view the 
difference with later revisions. 

Difference between revisions 

Differences in the revisions are indicated with colors. There are two main colors, which indicate the 

changes and the lack of color will indicate the parts that haven’t changed between the revisions. 

1. Green text highlights those parts that have been added to the latter version 
2. Red, over lined text highlights those parts that have been removed from the latter version. 

Restoring a revision 

To restore an older revision version click on Restore to this version (1.x) on the Page 
section of the toolbar. This will create a new version of the page, which will appear on top 
of the revision history, so it will be possible to still restore back to the original even after 
restoring another version. 

